# Events 

There are two types of input events. The first type is simply the
Character or Number returned by calling Vim's {getchar()} function.
These are called "character" events. A {Viewer} examine all such
character events and map some of them into the second type of event
supported by {Forms}, a Dictionary object or object event that must
have a 'type' key whose value is one of a set of allowed names. As an
example, a <LeftMouse> Number returned by {getchar()} is converted
into a Dictionary event object of type 'NewFocus' where the Dictionary
also has entries for the line and column (v:mouse_line and
v:mouse_column). Some object events are generated by the {Forms}
runtime system. An example of such an object event is a ReSize event
which is generated when a Glyph actually changes its size (normally, a
very rare occurrence). More common runtime generated event objects are
the Cancel and Submit events which are, generally, generated by a
"close" and an "accept" button.

A user interacts with a form by sending events to the form. Such 
events are generated by the keyboard and mouse. Events are
read by the {Viewer} with current focus, mapped by that {Viewer}
and then forwarded to the Viewer's child Glyph that has focus.
If a {Viewer} has no child Glyphs that accept focus, then all events
are ignored (except the <Esc> character which will pop the user out
of the current Viewer/Form).

If a Glyph consumes an input event, it might require redrawing (such
as adding a character to an editor). In this case, the Glyph registers
itself with a viewer-redraw-list and when control is returned to the
{Viewer}, the Glyph is redrawn.

Sometimes a Glyph will consume an event and an action will be
triggered. For example, a left mouse click or keyboard <CR> entry
on a button will cause the action associated with that button to
execute.

## Limitations

### New Types of Events

A developer can create a new Event type, but the Glyphs that handle Events
will simply ignore it.

Currently, any Glyph that handles Events does so in one of its methods;
there is no notion of a pluggable, independent Event Handler.

### Representation

I've thought about but never reached a design that I was happy with
concerning the scripting of a Form interaction. That is, add Events
to the Input Queue and then call a Form's 'run()' method.
The issue is that of representing the Number and String that are
returned by 'getchar()' and 'nr2char()' methods. And, in addition,
some events have secondary data such as Mouse Events.

A companion problem is how to log and capture a user's 'getchar()' Character 
stream in some format that would allow for editing the resultant 
captured data and replay.

In both cases, I do not see a solution short of enumerating all possible
Character/Event types.

I might add, a good Character/Event capture/edit/replay capability would
allow for creating a suit of non-visual unit tests for the Forms library. 

